---
title: Data Privacy Addendum
slug: dpa
layout: legal
description: >
  This data privacy addendum forms part of the underlying agreement along with any associated contractual document.
---


**Tailscale Data Protection DPA for Customers**

Effective date: 2023-07-05

This Data Privacy Addendum ("**DPA**") forms part of the underlying
agreement (either a Master Services Agreement or Terms of Service),
along with any associated contractual document between the Parties, such
as an order form or statement of work ("**Agreement**") by and between
Tailscale Inc. ("**Tailscale**") and the customer named in the Agreement
("**Customer**"), each a "**Party**" and collectively the "**Parties**".
This DPA applies to and takes precedence over the Agreement.

Customer and Tailscale agree as follows:

1.  <ins>**Definitions**</ins>. For purposes of this DPA:

    a.  "**Data Protection Law(s)**" means all applicable laws,
        regulations, and other legal or self-regulatory requirements
        in any jurisdiction relating to privacy, data protection, data
        security, breach notification, or the Processing of Personal
        Data, including without limitation, to the extent applicable,
        the General Data Protection Regulation, Regulation (EU)
        2016/679 ("**GDPR**"), the United Kingdom Data Protection Act
        of 2018 ("**UK Privacy Act**"), the Swiss Federal Act on Data
        Protection ("**FADP**"), the California Consumer Privacy Act,
        Cal. Civ. Code § 1798.100 *et seq.* and associated amendments
        and regulations thereto ("**CCPA**"), and the Canadian
        Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act
        ("**PIPEDA**").

    b.  "**Data Subject**" means an identified or identifiable natural
        person about whom Personal Data relates.

    c.  "**EU SCCs**" means the Standard Contractual Clauses issued
        pursuant to Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2021/914 of
        4 June 2021 *on standard contractual clauses for the transfer
        of personal data to third countries pursuant to Regulation
        (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council*,
        located [http://data.europa.eu/eli/dec_impl/2021/914/oj](http://data.europa.eu/eli/dec_impl/2021/914/oj)., and
        completed as set forth in Section 7 below.

    d.  "**Personal Data**" includes "personal data," "personal
        information," "personally identifiable information," and
        similar terms, and such terms shall have the same meaning as
        defined by applicable Data Protection Laws, that is Processed
        in relation to the Agreement.

    e.  "**Process**" and "**Processing**" mean any operation or set of
        operations performed on Personal Data or on sets of Personal
        Data, whether or not by automated means, such as collection,
        recording, organization, creating, structuring, storage,
        adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use,
        disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making
        available, alignment or combination, restriction, erasure, or
        destruction.

    f.  "**Security Breach**" means any accidental or unlawful
        acquisition, destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized
        disclosure of, or access to, Personal Data.

2.  <ins>**Scope and Purposes of Processing**</ins>.

    a.  The scope, nature, purposes, and duration of the processing, the
        types of Personal Data Processed, and the Data Subjects
        concerned are set forth in this DPA, including its Schedules.
        The details provided in <span style="text-decoration:underline">Schedule A</span> are deemed to satisfy any
        requirement to provide some or all of such details under any
        Data Privacy Law.

    b.  Tailscale will Process Personal Data solely: (1) to fulfill its
        obligations to Customer under the Agreement, including this
        DPA; (2) on Customer's behalf; and (3) in compliance with
        applicable Data Protection Laws. Tailscale will not "sell"
        Personal Data (as such term is defined in applicable Data
        Protection Laws), "share" Personal Data for purposes of
        "cross-context behavioral advertising" (as such terms are
        defined in applicable Data Protection Laws), or otherwise
        Process Personal Data for any purpose other than for the
        specific purposes set forth herein or outside of the direct
        business relationship with Customer.

    c.  Tailscale will comply with any applicable restrictions under
        Data Protection Laws on combining Personal Data with personal
        data that Tailscale receives from, or on behalf of, another
        person or persons, or that Tailscale collects from any
        interaction between it and a Data Subject.

3.  <ins>**Personal Data Processing Requirements**</ins>. Tailscale
    will:

    a.  Provide the same level of protection for Personal Data as is
        required under the Data Protection Laws applicable to
        Customer.

    b.  Ensure that the persons it authorizes to Process the Personal
        Data have committed themselves to confidentiality or are under
        an appropriate statutory obligation of confidentiality.

    c.  Assist Customer in the fulfilment of Customer's obligations to
        respond to verifiable requests by Data Subjects (or their
        lawful representatives) for exercising their rights under Data
        Protection Laws (such as rights to access or delete Personal
        Data).

    d.  Promptly, and in any event within seven business (7) days,
        notify Customer of (i) any third-party or Data Subject
        complaints regarding the Processing of Personal Data; or (ii)
        any government or Data Subject requests for access to or
        information about Tailscale's Processing of Personal Data on
        Customer's behalf, unless prohibited by Data Protection Laws.
        Following such notification, Tailscale will await written
        instructions from Customer on how, if at all, to assist in
        responding to the request. Tailscale will provide Customer
        with reasonable cooperation and assistance in relation to any
        such request. If Tailscale is prohibited from providing notice
        regarding a government request, and determines that the
        request would interfere with Tailscale's ability to meet its
        obligations under this DPA, Tailscale will notify Customer
        that Tailscale can no longer comply with this DPA, without
        being required to identify the specific provision with which
        it can no longer comply. 

    e.  Provide reasonable assistance to and cooperation with Customer
        for Customer's performance of a data protection impact
        assessment of Processing or proposed Processing of Personal
        Data, when required by applicable Data Protection Laws.

    f.  Provide reasonable assistance to and cooperation with Customer
        for Customer's consultation with regulatory authorities in
        relation to the Processing or proposed Processing of Personal
        Data, including complying with any obligation applicable to
        Customer under Data Protection Laws to consult with a
        regulatory authority in relation to Tailscale's Processing or
        proposed Processing of Personal Data.

    g.  Tailscale certifies that it understands its obligations under
        this DPA (including without limitation the restrictions under
        Sections 2 and 3) and that it will comply with them.

4.  <ins>**Data Security</ins>**. Tailscale will implement
    appropriate administrative, technical, physical, and organizational
    measures to protect Personal Data, as set forth in <span style="text-decoration:underline">Schedule B</span>.

5.  <ins>**Security Breach**</ins>. Tailscale will notify Customer
    promptly, and in any event within forty-eight (48) hours, of any
    Security Breach resulting from Tailscale's Processing of Personal
    Data on behalf of Customer. Tailscale will comply with the Security
    Breach-related obligations directly applicable to it under Data
    Protection Laws and will assist Customer in Customer's compliance
    with its Security Breach-related obligations, including without
    limitation by:

    a.  At Tailscale's own expense, taking reasonable and appropriate
        steps to mitigate the effects of the Security Breach and
        reduce the risk to Data Subjects whose Personal Data was
        involved; and

    b.  Providing Customer with the following information, to the extent
        known:

        i.  The nature of the Security Breach, including, where
            possible, how the Security Breach occurred, the categories
            and approximate number of Data Subjects concerned, and the
            categories and approximate number of Personal Data records
            concerned;

        ii. The likely consequences of the Security Breach; and

        iii. Measures taken or proposed to be taken by Tailscale to
             address the Security Breach, including, where
             appropriate, measures to mitigate its possible adverse
             effects.

6.  <ins>**Subprocessors**</ins>.

    a.  Customer acknowledges and agrees that Tailscale may use
        Tailscale affiliates and other subprocessors to Process
        Personal Data in accordance with the provisions within this
        DPA and Data Protection Laws. Where Tailscale sub-contracts
        any of its rights or obligations concerning Personal Data,
        including to any affiliate, Tailscale will: (1) take steps to
        select and retain subprocessors that are capable of
        maintaining appropriate privacy and security measures to
        protect Personal Data consistent with applicable Data
        Protection Laws; and (2) require that each subprocessor
        complies with obligations that are no less restrictive than
        those imposed on Tailscale under this DPA.

    b.  To the extent required by applicable Data Protection Laws,
        Tailscale has provided a current list of Tailscale's
        subprocessors listed herein as <span style="text-decoration:underline">Schedule C</span>, and Customer hereby
        consents to Tailscale's use of such subprocessors. Tailscale
        will maintain an up-to-date list of its subprocessors, and it
        will provide Customer with reasonable notice of any new
        subprocessor added to the list. In the event Customer objects
        to a new subprocessor, Tailscale will not transfer Personal
        Data to the new subprocessor and will use reasonable efforts
        to make available to Customer a change in the services or
        recommend a commercially reasonable change to Customer's use
        of the services to avoid Processing of Personal Data by the
        objected-to subprocessor without unreasonably burdening the
        Customer. Customer may, in its sole discretion, terminate the
        Agreement at any time and by providing written notice to
        Tailscale in the event that it objects to a subprocessor and
        Tailscale is unable to offer reasonable changes the services
        to satisfy Customer.

7.  <ins>**Data Transfers</ins>**

    a.  Tailscale will not engage in any cross-border Processing of
        Personal Data, or transmit, directly or indirectly, any
        Personal Data to any country outside of the country from which
        such Personal Data was collected, without complying with
        applicable Data Protection Laws. Where Tailscale engages in an
        onward transfer of Personal Data, Tailscale shall ensure that
        a lawful data transfer mechanism is in place prior to
        transferring Personal Data from one country to another.

    b.  To the extent legally required, by signing this DPA, Customer
        and Tailscale are deemed to have signed the EU SCCs, which
        form part of this DPA and (except as described in Section 7(c)
        and (d) below) will be deemed completed as follows:

        i.  Module 2 of the EU SCCs applies to transfers of Personal
            Data from Customer (as a controller) to Tailscale (as a
            processor);

        ii. Clause 7 (the optional docking clause) is included;

        iii. Under Clause 9 (Use of sub-processors), the Parties select
             Option 2 (General written authorization). The initial
             list of sub-processors is set forth in Schedule
             C of this DPA and Tailscale shall propose an
             update to that list at least fifteen (15) business days
             in advance of any intended additions or replacements of
             sub-processors in accordance with Section 6(b) of this
             DPA;

        iv. Under Clause 11 (Redress), the optional language requiring
            that data subjects be permitted to lodge a complaint with
            an independent dispute resolution body shall not be deemed
            to be included;

        v.  Under Clause 17 (Governing law), the Parties choose Option 1
            (the law of an EU Member State that allows for third-Party
            beneficiary rights). The Parties select the law of
            Ireland;

        vi. Under Clause 18 (Choice of forum and jurisdiction), the
            Parties select the courts of Ireland;

        vii. Annex I(A) and I(B) (List of Parties) is completed as set
             forth in Schedule A of this DPA;

        viii. Under Annex I(C) (Competent supervisory authority), the
              Parties shall follow the rules for identifying such
              authority under Clause 13 and, to the extent legally
              permissible, select the Irish Data Protection
              Commission.

        ix. Annex II (Technical and organizational measures) is
            completed with Schedule B of this DPA; and

        x.  Annex III (List of subprocessors) is not applicable as the
            Parties have chosen General Authorization under Clause 9.
            Tailscale's current subprocessors are listed in Schedule
            C.

    c.  With respect to Personal Data transferred from the United
        Kingdom for which United Kingdom law (and not the law in any
        European Economic Area jurisdiction) governs the international
        nature of the transfer, the International Data Transfer DPA to
        the EU Commission Standard Contractual Clauses (available as
        of the Effective Date at
        [https://ico.org.uk/media/for-organisations/documents/4019539/international-data-transfer-addendum.pdf](https://ico.org.uk/media/for-organisations/documents/4019539/international-data-transfer-addendum.pdf)
        ("UK SCCs") forms part of this DPA and takes precedence over
        the rest of this DPA as set forth in the UK SCCs. Undefined
        capitalized terms used in this provision shall mean the
        definitions in the UK SCCs. For purposes of the UK SCCs, they
        shall be deemed completed as follows:

        i.  Table 1 of the UK SCCs:

            1.  The Parties' details shall be the Parties and their
                affiliates to the extent any of them is involved in
                such transfer.

            2.  The Key Contact shall be the contacts set forth in the
                Agreement.

        ii. Table 2 of the UK SCCs: The Approved EU SCCs referenced in
            Table 2 shall be the EU SCCs as executed by the Parties.

        iii. Table 3 of the UK SCCs: Annex 1A, 1B, II, and III shall be
             set forth in Schedules A, B, and C below.

        iv. Table 4 of the UK SCCs: Either Party may end this DPA as set
            out in Section 19 of the UK SCCs.

        v.  By entering into this DPA, the Parties are deemed to be
            signing the UK SCCs.

    d.  For transfers of Personal Data that are subject to the FADP, the
        EU SCCs form part of this DPA as set forth in Section 7(b) of
        this DPA, but with the following differences to the extent
        required by the FADP: (1) references to the GDPR in the EU
        SCCs are to be understood as references to the FADP insofar as
        the data transfers are subject exclusively to the FADP and not
        to the GDPR; (2) references to personal data in the EU SCCs
        also refer to data about identifiable legal entities until the
        entry into force of revisions to the FADP that eliminate this
        broader scope; (3) term "member state" in EU SCCs shall not be
        interpreted in such a way as to exclude data subjects in
        Switzerland from the possibility of suing for their rights in
        their place of habitual residence (Switzerland) in accordance
        with Clause 18(c) of the EU SCCs; and (4) the relevant
        supervisory authority is the Swiss Federal Data Protection and
        Information Commissioner (for transfers subject to the FADP
        and not the GDPR), or both such Commissioner and the
        supervisory authority identified in the EU SCCs (where the
        FADP and GDPR apply, respectively).

8.  <ins>**Audits**</ins>. Tailscale will make available to Customer
    all information necessary to demonstrate compliance with this DPA
    and will allow for and contribute to audits, including inspections,
    conducted by Customer or another auditor mandated by Customer,
    provided that such audit shall occur not more than once every
    twelve (12) calendar months, upon reasonable prior written notice,
    at Customer's sole expense, and to the extent Tailscale's personnel
    are required to cooperate therewith, only during Tailscale's normal
    business hours. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a
    Security Breach resulting from Tailscale's Processing of Personal
    Data on behalf of Customer, Customer shall have the right to request
    an audit with no frequency cap, and any audits performed as the
    result of a Security Breach shall be performed at Tailscale's sole
    expense.

9.  <ins>**Return or Destruction of Personal Data**</ins>. Except to
    the extent required otherwise by Data Protection Laws, Tailscale
    will, at the choice of Customer and upon Customer's written request,
    either at the termination of the Agreement or at any time during the
    term of the Agreement, return to Customer and/or securely destroy
    all Personal Data. Except to the extent prohibited by Data
    Protection Laws, Tailscale will inform Customer if it is not able to
    return or delete the Personal Data.

10. <ins>**Survival**</ins>. The provisions of this DPA survive the
    termination or expiration of the Agreement for so long as Tailscale
    or its subprocessors Process the Personal Data.



**Schedule A**

<ins>**ANNEX I**</ins>

**A. LIST OF PARTIES**

**Data exporter(s)**:

Name: The data exporter is Customer.

Activities relevant to the data transferred under these SCCs: The data
exporter is a user of Tailscale's VPN Services pursuant to their
underlying Agreement. The data exporter acts as a controller with
respect to its own personal data.

Signature and date: The Parties agree that execution of the Agreement
shall constitute execution of these SCCs by both Parties.

**Data importer(s):**

Name: The data importer is Tailscale.

Activities relevant to the data transferred under these SCCs: The data
importer is the provider of Services to the data exporter and its
customers pursuant to their underlying Agreement. The data importer acts
as the data exporter's processor.

Signature and date: The Parties agree that execution of the Agreement
shall constitute execution of these SCCs by both Parties.

**B. DESCRIPTION OF TRANSFER**

***Categories of data subjects whose personal data is transferred:***
Customer's employees and authorized users.

***Categories of personal data transferred:*** The Personal Data
transferred concern: the names and email addresses or usernames of
Customer's employees and authorized users; authorized user log-in
authentication information; and metadata regarding devices used to
connect to the Services, including device names, operating system type,
host name, IP address and IP routing information, cryptographic public
key, user agent (where applicable), language settings, date and time of
access to the Tailscale VPN, logs describing connections and containing
statistics about data sent to and from other devices ("Inter-Node
Traffic Logs"), and version of Tailscale VPN installed. Tailscale does
not Process in any way, or have the ability to access, the content of
Customer's traffic data transmitted through the Services, which is fully
end-to-end encrypted.

Customers have the option, in their discretion, to use certain features
and functionalities through the Tailscale Solution that may generate
additional logs and other data that Tailscale processes and stores on
behalf of our Customers ("Customer Log Data"). The Customer, and not
Tailscale, has control over the contents of Customer Log Data processed
through the Tailscale Solution using such additional features and
functionalities.

***Sensitive data transferred (if applicable) and applied restrictions
or safeguards that fully take into consideration the nature of the data
and the risks involved, such as for instance strict purpose limitation,
access restrictions (including access only for staff having followed
specialised training), keeping a record of access to the data,
restrictions for onward transfers or additional security measures:***
N/A -- as explained above, any traffic data transmitted through use of
the Services is fully end-to-end encrypted and not accessible or
viewable by Tailscale.

***The frequency of the transfer (e.g. whether the data is transferred
on a one-off or continuous basis):*** Continuous.

***Nature of the processing:*** Tailscale Processes Personal Data solely
in connection with providing its VPN services to Customer.

***Purpose(s) of the data transfer and further processing:*** The
objective of the transfer and further Processing of Personal Data by
Tailscale is to provide Tailscale's VPN services to Customer.

***The period for which the personal data will be retained, or, if that
is not possible, the criteria used to determine that period:*** Personal
Data will be retained for the period of time necessary to provide the
Services to Customer under the Agreement and the DPA, and otherwise in
accordance with applicable legal requirements.

***For transfers to (sub-) processors, also specify subject matter,
nature and duration of the processing:*** Same as above to the extent
such information is provided to subprocessors for purposes of providing
the Services.

**C. COMPETENT SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY**

See Section 7(b)(viii) of the DPA.

**Schedule B**

**TAILSCALE DATA SECURITY MEASURES**

Tailscale's data security measures ("Tailscale Security Measures") are
outlined in depth at the following link:
 [https://tailscale.com/security](https://tailscale.com/security). At all times during the term of the
Agreement and for as long as Tailscale is Processing Personal Data,
Tailscale will maintain security measures that are at least as robust as
those included in the Tailscale Security Measures on the data of
execution of this DPA.

**Schedule C**

**TAILSCALE SUBPROCESSORS**

 [https://tailscale.com/dpa-subprocessors](https://tailscale.com/dpa-subprocessors)
